well howdy there internet people it's
beau gown
so today we're gonna do a video request
uh somebody asked me to talk about a
particular topic
and it's a pretty big discussion in the
united states right now and
they even sent me links for research and
we're going to talk about what's in
those links but
that's going to be in the second half
because i don't know
that that's the best way to frame it
because this topic
it's it's widespread in the us and when
people discuss it
they act like it's something new they
act like it's this concept that's going
to have to be introduced to the united
states
rather than the fact that it's
an idea a principle that has existed in
the united states
since the very very beginning
and i mean that literally
so today we're going to talk about the
surprising origins
in the history of consent based policing
you know that's that new liberal thing
where they want to send out social
workers and stuff like that right
yeah y'all about to be surprised um
when i say the idea of consent based
policing has been here since the very
beginning
i mean that very literally very
literally
um i'm gonna read a quote and it's a
quote that every american has probably
heard a thousand times
but i'm gonna read the next sentence
and then everything might come into
focus a little bit in this discussion
we hold these truths to be self-evident
that all men are created equal
that they are endowed by their creator
with certain unalienable rights that
among them
are life liberty and the pursuit of
happiness everybody knows this quote in
the u.s
everybody's heard it over and over again
it's from the declaration of
independence
the very next line that to secure these
rights
governments are instituted among men
deriving their just
powers from the consent of the governed
from the very beginning from the
declaration of independence
this is how it was supposed to be done
the government
derives its power from the consent of
the governed
it is supposed to display that just
power
with consent
it it's literally written down
this isn't something new consent based
policing
is as american as apple pie
okay so what are the two main ideas
the two main principles of consent based
policing
the first is that the police or the
public and the public or the police
that's one of them and that's an
incredibly american
conservative idea and we'll get to that
the next is that police are effective
because
of a lack of crime not because they made
a lot of arrests
that's also incredibly american
okay so to show how conservative
this new liberal idea is um
if you're a republican you know the
answers to these uh
if a sheriff has a problem
he can't handle on his own or she can't
handle on her own
what can she do with members of the
community
deputize them right why because the
police or the public
the public or the police
the only thing that can stop a bad guy
is a good guy right
the public or the police police or the
public
here's one every republican worth
assault will know
a well-regulated and that's the whole
people right
because the public or the police the
police or the public this is not a new
idea
this is not some liberal thing this is
as american as it gets
this is as conservative as it gets
now if you are on the other side of the
political spectrum don't worry
it embodies some of your core beliefs as
well
engaging in consent-based policing means
engaging in community-based
policing which means it breaks up the
government's monopoly on violence
there should be no debate over this in
the us
this is where we need to head this is
where we got to go
this is where we should have been the
whole time it's in the declaration
of independence there should be no
discussion
about whether we should do it it should
be about how we're going to go about
doing it
now one of the big criticisms of this
is that you know cops aren't social
workers
and can't send social workers out there
to meet the bad man
and what are they going to do then
if you're hearing this rhetoric or
you've said something like this
you're a conservative okay
which means you know who sheriff andy
taylor is andy griffith
how did he engage in most interactions
with the public
persuasion advice and warnings right
remember those three persuasion advice
and warnings
that's you're going to see that material
again
but if there really was somebody from
out of town you know
a bad man that showed up in mayberry
he had that rack in his office he didn't
carry
because he didn't need it he was part of
the community
police for the public public or the
police
but he had that rack in his office and
that was some pretty modern stuff for
the time
yeah i mean telling barney to get his
bullet
that's still part of it it's an option
but it's the very very very
last option
and that didn't happen very often
so what's it look like if consent based
policing was to be enacted in the united
states
what would it look like the first thing
that would have to happen some of the
laws would have to change
because if you're going to engage in
consent based policing you need consent
of the governed which means the laws
have to reflect the will of the people
which means a big one
for a lot of people would be let's say
hypothetically speaking the overwhelming
majority of the population
says a certain plant is okay you can't
make that plant illegal
because you have to go off of the will
of the people
again an incredibly american idea
the government is made up of we the
people
if that was done consent-based policing
can happen very very easily
it wouldn't be a big deal your average
cop out there on the street
they encourage people to get treatment
they engage in conversations they use
good humor
they provide advice
persuasion and give warnings in order to
prevent
crime keep order
that's it now
that's like 90 percent 95 of most police
interactions
but every once in a while there is that
bad man
right
that's when cops actually get to be
operators
you know the right now
a lot of them think that that's what
they need to do all the time it's not
it's not it's counter to everything this
country is supposed to embody
supposed to be the last resort but
they might get to do it which means they
have to actually behave like operators
which means they have to train
they have to learn about surveillance
intelligence work they have to actually
learn how to do their job
which means they're going to spend 40
hours a week training for months
so one day six months after they start
they can conduct a three minute
operation and have it go down the right
way
that subset of law enforcement
they're not paid for what they do on a
daily basis
they're paid for what they can do if
they have to
because we're no longer judging law
enforcement effectiveness
by the amount of arrests they have we're
judging it by the lack of crime that we
have
so it's a lot of training and the public
they never see these guys
they never see these cops
only in very very rare circumstances
the general idea of consent based
policing
could be summed up as law enforcement
police they become a part of the
community
rather than an oppressor of it
okay so we're going to take a quick
break here and we're going to come back
into yet another surprising history
and a little bit of an origin story for
where this came from
and uh we're going to go through kind of
the nine standing orders
of consent based police okay
all right welcome back
so we're gonna start with the nine
standing orders
you know and this is how i would uh
i would suggest it be done
the first one would be to recognize that
it's the job of police is to prevent
crime
okay prevent crime and disorder
as an alternative to using military
force and punishment
so you want to prevent crime rather than
punish the crime
you want to stop it before it starts why
because people have unalienable rights
and you don't want to infringe upon
those
unless you absolutely have to so you
want to stop it before it starts
the second is that power is dependent on
public approval
and public cooperation the consent of
the governed
the third is that respect for law
enforcement
is heavily
weighed by how well they can secure
willing cooperation
because governments are instituted among
that
and by men in this case we're talking
about humanity as a whole
number four cooperation of the public
diminishes
proportionately with the amount of force
required
just powers the more force you use
the less the public's going to be
willing to cooperate with you because
you're going to be seen
as an oppressor rather than a part of
the community you're gonna be outside of
it rather than a part of it you don't
want that
so the more force you use the less
cooperation you have
the more cooperation you have the less
force you have to use because you are
using your powers
justly number five
offer impartial service regardless of
class
or race or you know anything
along those lines be courteous and have
good humor
why because all men are created equal
everybody deserves equal protection
under the law
number six force is only used
after persuasion advice and warnings
fail
and only to the minimum degree because
people are entitled to
life and liberty that's right
police are the public public or the
police number seven
because these are duties that fall to
everybody it's just the cop is getting
paid
to make that their full-time vocation to
take their
those duties more seriously but these
are duties
that every citizen should play a part in
number eight cops aren't
innocent until proven guilty you know
due process all that stuff enshrined in
the constitution
number nine efficiency is the absence of
crime
not a lot of arrests i would suggest
that that one is self-evident
so those are the nine standing orders if
you wanted to enact something like that
now those aren't my standing orders
that's just me paraphrasing robert pill
robert pill is the reason that british
cops are called bobbies
these were his standing orders in 1829
this isn't new when we talk about modern
policing we're talking about the 1800s
this isn't new this isn't something that
has to be introduced to the united
states
we're just that far behind the times
we're that obsolete we're going the
wrong way and i know somebody's already
saying well they have guns
you know here in the us and they don't
have them
over in the uk the british got uh
the first real gun regulations were in
and up until 1988 they had some that
were pretty comparable
to what we have here in the us now
granted americans have a lot more
because
cowboys and john wayne are something i
don't know um
but the point is this
has worked since 1829.
so you had 150 years or more with an
armed
populace and it worked it works
in the uk it works in canada it works in
new zealand it works in australia it
works all over the world
everywhere that has a modern police
department
but we don't want to enact it here
because we're married to that idea that
the gun makes the man
when that idea becomes prominent in law
enforcement
it becomes prominent in the populace
because the police the public public are
the police
it's going to be a reflection of that
this is something we could do it's
something we should do i would strongly
suggest
that moving in the direction of the
declaration of independence is probably
more american than moving in the
direction of totalitarian governments
the world
over which is how a lot of our law
enforcement is currently behaving
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day